sdks/js/ditto-chat-ui/README.md, before:

# DittoChatScreens

This package provides a collection of React components for building chat UIs, powered by Ditto. Its main purpose is to expose the `DittoChatUI` component as a reusable React component library, allowing developers to easily integrate a full-featured chat experience into their applications.

## Installation

To install the package, use npm or yarn:

```bash
npm install @dittolive/ditto-chat-ui
# or
yarn add @dittolive/ditto-chat-ui
```

## Usage

Here's a basic example of how to use the `DittoChatUI` component:

```javascript
import React from 'react'
import { DittoChatUI } from '@dittolive/ditto-chat-ui'
import { Ditto } from '@dittolive/ditto'
import { toast } from 'sonner'

const MyChatApp = () => {
  // Initialize Ditto instance and authentication here
  // For example:
  const ditto = new Ditto({
    persistenceDirectory: './ditto',
    // ... other Ditto configuration
  })
  // You would typically handle Ditto authentication (e.g., anonymous, JWT) here
  // ditto.auth.loginWithToken('YOUR_TOKEN', 'YOUR_PROVIDER');

  return (
    <div style={{ height: '100vh', width: '100vw' }}>
      <DittoChatUI
        ditto={ditto}
        userCollectionKey="my-users"
        userId="user123"
        theme="auto"
        rbacConfig={{
          canCreateRoom: true,
          canEditOwnMessage: true,
          canDeleteOwnMessage: false,
          canAddReaction: true,
          canRemoveOwnReaction: true,
          canMentionUsers: true,
          canSubscribeToRoom: true,
        }}
        notificationHandler={(title, description) => {
          toast.info(title, {
            description,
          })
        }}
      />
    </div>
  )
}

export default MyChatApp
```

### Props

The `DittoChatUI` component accepts the following props:

- `ditto`: (Required) An initialized Ditto instance. This is used to connect to the Ditto mesh network and manage chat data.
- `userCollectionKey`: (Required) A string representing the key for the Ditto collection where user information is stored.
- `userId`: (Required) A string representing the ID of the current user.
- `theme`: (Optional) Theme mode - `"light"`, `"dark"`, or `"auto"`. Default is `"light"`. When set to `"auto"`, the theme follows the system preference.
- `rbacConfig`: (Optional) Role-Based Access Control configuration object to control user permissions. See the [RBAC section in DittoChatCore](../DittoChatCore/README.md#role-based-access-control-rbac) for available permissions and detailed documentation.
- `notificationHandler`: (Optional) A callback function to handle chat notifications. Receives `title` and `description` parameters. If not provided, the component uses a default toast notification handler. See the [Notifications section](#notifications) for more details.

## Notifications

The `DittoChatUI` component provides built-in notification support through the `notificationHandler` prop.

### Default Behavior

If no `notificationHandler` is provided, the component uses Sonner's `toast.info()` as the default notification handler.

### Custom Notification Handler

You can provide a custom handler to integrate with your preferred toast/notification library:

```javascript
import { toast } from 'sonner'

;<DittoChatUI
  ditto={ditto}
  userCollectionKey="my-users"
  userId="user123"
  notificationHandler={(title, description) => {
    toast.info(title, {
      description,
    })
  }}
/>
```

For more examples and details about notification events, see the [DittoChatCore Notifications documentation](../DittoChatCore/README.md#notifications).

## Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)

The `DittoChatUI` component includes a built-in RBAC system that allows you to control user permissions for various chat actions through the `rbacConfig` prop.

### Available Permissions

| Permission             | Description               | Default | UI Impact                                    |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `canCreateRoom`        | Create new chat rooms     | `true`  | Shows/hides "New Room" button in chat list   |
| `canEditOwnMessage`    | Edit own messages         | `true`  | Shows/hides edit button on user's messages   |
| `canDeleteOwnMessage`  | Delete own messages       | `true`  | Shows/hides delete button on user's messages |
| `canAddReaction`       | Add reactions to messages | `true`  | Enables/disables reaction picker on messages |
| `canRemoveOwnReaction` | Remove own reactions      | `true`  | Enables/disables removing user's reactions   |
| `canMentionUsers`      | Mention users in messages | `true`  | Enables/disables @ mentions in message input |
| `canSubscribeToRoom`   | Subscribe to chat rooms   | `true`  | Controls room subscription functionality     |

### Default Behavior

If no `rbacConfig` is provided, all permissions default to `true`, giving users full access to all chat features.

### Configuration Examples

#### Restrict Room Creation

```javascript
<DittoChatUI
  ditto={ditto}
  userCollectionKey="my-users"
  userId="user123"
  rbacConfig={{
    canCreateRoom: false, // Users cannot create new rooms
  }}
/>
```

#### Read-Only Chat Experience

```javascript
<DittoChatUI
  ditto={ditto}
  userCollectionKey="my-users"
  userId="user123"
  rbacConfig={{
    canCreateRoom: false,
    canEditOwnMessage: false,
    canDeleteOwnMessage: false,
    canAddReaction: false,
    canMentionUsers: false,
  }}
/>
```

#### Moderator Permissions

```javascript
<DittoChatUI
  ditto={ditto}
  userCollectionKey="my-users"
  userId="user123"
  rbacConfig={{
    canCreateRoom: true,
    canEditOwnMessage: true,
    canDeleteOwnMessage: true,
    canAddReaction: true,
    canRemoveOwnReaction: true,
    canMentionUsers: true,
    canSubscribeToRoom: true,
  }}
/>
```

### Dynamic Permission Updates

For advanced use cases where permissions need to change dynamically, see the [DittoChatCore RBAC documentation](../DittoChatCore/README.md#role-based-access-control-rbac) for information on updating permissions at runtime.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our `CONTRIBUTING.md` for more details.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Ditto Web Chat - Comment Rooms, Global Store & Documentation (#86)
* WIP: Comment Rooms

* globle ditto chat store handled

* Added Comments and Vul Fix

* Comment Rooms Fix

* Updated README

* README Update

* README Update

* README Update

* PR Comments Fix

* Updated README

---------

Co-authored-by: Yuvaraj Nithyanandan <yuvaraj@quest1.io>

sdks/js/ditto-chat-ui/README.md, after:

# DittoChatScreens

This package provides a collection of React components for building chat UIs, powered by Ditto. Its main purpose is to expose the `DittoChatUI` component as a reusable React component library, allowing developers to easily integrate a full-featured chat experience into their applications.

## Installation

To install the package, use npm or yarn:

```bash
npm install @dittolive/ditto-chat-ui
# or
yarn add @dittolive/ditto-chat-ui
```

## Usage

Here's a basic example of how to use the `DittoChatUI` component:

```javascript
import React from 'react'
import { DittoChatUI } from '@dittolive/ditto-chat-ui'
import { Ditto } from '@dittolive/ditto'
import { toast } from 'sonner'

const MyChatApp = () => {
  // Initialize Ditto instance and authentication here
  // For example:
  const ditto = new Ditto({
    persistenceDirectory: './ditto',
    // ... other Ditto configuration
  })
  // You would typically handle Ditto authentication (e.g., anonymous, JWT) here
  // ditto.auth.loginWithToken('YOUR_TOKEN', 'YOUR_PROVIDER');

  return (
    <div style={{ height: '100vh', width: '100vw' }}>
      <DittoChatUI
        ditto={ditto}
        userCollectionKey="my-users"
        userId="user123"
        theme="auto"
        rbacConfig={{
          canCreateRoom: true,
          canEditOwnMessage: true,
          canDeleteOwnMessage: false,
          canAddReaction: true,
          canRemoveOwnReaction: true,
          canMentionUsers: true,
          canSubscribeToRoom: true,
        }}
        notificationHandler={(title, description) => {
          toast.info(title, {
            description,
          })
        }}
      />
    </div>
  )
}

export default MyChatApp
```

### Props

The `DittoChatUI` component accepts the following props:

- `ditto`: (Required) An initialized Ditto instance. This is used to connect to the Ditto mesh network and manage chat data.
- `userCollectionKey`: (Required) A string representing the key for the Ditto collection where user information is stored.
- `userId`: (Required) A string representing the ID of the current user.
- `theme`: (Optional) Theme mode - `"light"`, `"dark"`, or `"auto"`. Default is `"light"`. When set to `"auto"`, the theme follows the system preference.
- `rbacConfig`: (Optional) Role-Based Access Control configuration object to control user permissions. See the [RBAC section in DittoChatCore](../ditto-chat-core/README.md#role-based-access-control-rbac) for available permissions and detailed documentation.
- `notificationHandler`: (Optional) A callback function to handle chat notifications. Receives `title` and `description` parameters. If not provided, the component uses a default toast notification handler. See the [Notifications section](#notifications) for more details.

## Notifications

The `DittoChatUI` component provides built-in notification support through the `notificationHandler` prop.

### Default Behavior

If no `notificationHandler` is provided, the component uses Sonner's `toast.info()` as the default notification handler.

### Custom Notification Handler

You can provide a custom handler to integrate with your preferred toast/notification library:

```javascript
import { toast } from 'sonner'
;<DittoChatUI
  ditto={ditto}
  userCollectionKey="my-users"
  userId="user123"
  notificationHandler={(title, description) => {
    toast.info(title, {
      description,
    })
  }}
/>
```

For more examples and details about notification events, see the [DittoChatCore Notifications documentation](../ditto-chat-core/README.md#notifications).

## Comment Rooms (Generated Rooms)

To render a specific comment thread (generated room) separately from the main chat list, you can use the `ChatView` component directly.

```javascript
import { ChatView } from '@dittolive/ditto-chat-ui'

// ...
;<ChatView
  roomId={commentRoomId} // ID of the generated room (e.g., "comments-doc-123")
  messagesId="messages" // Collection ID to store messages
  onBack={() => console.log('Back clicked')} // Optional back button handler
/>
```

For detailed documentation on **creating** comment rooms and managing their state, see the [DittoChatCore Comment Rooms documentation](../ditto-chat-core/README.md#comment-rooms-generated-rooms).

## Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)

The `DittoChatUI` component includes a built-in RBAC system that allows you to control user permissions for various chat actions through the `rbacConfig` prop.

### Available Permissions

| Permission             | Description               | Default | UI Impact                                    |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `canCreateRoom`        | Create new chat rooms     | `true`  | Shows/hides "New Room" button in chat list   |
| `canEditOwnMessage`    | Edit own messages         | `true`  | Shows/hides edit button on user's messages   |
| `canDeleteOwnMessage`  | Delete own messages       | `true`  | Shows/hides delete button on user's messages |
| `canAddReaction`       | Add reactions to messages | `true`  | Enables/disables reaction picker on messages |
| `canRemoveOwnReaction` | Remove own reactions      | `true`  | Enables/disables removing user's reactions   |
| `canMentionUsers`      | Mention users in messages | `true`  | Enables/disables @ mentions in message input |
| `canSubscribeToRoom`   | Subscribe to chat rooms   | `true`  | Controls room subscription functionality     |

### Default Behavior

If no `rbacConfig` is provided, all permissions default to `true`, giving users full access to all chat features.

### Configuration Examples

#### Restrict Room Creation

```javascript
<DittoChatUI
  ditto={ditto}
  userCollectionKey="my-users"
  userId="user123"
  rbacConfig={{
    canCreateRoom: false, // Users cannot create new rooms
  }}
/>
```

#### Read-Only Chat Experience

```javascript
<DittoChatUI
  ditto={ditto}
  userCollectionKey="my-users"
  userId="user123"
  rbacConfig={{
    canCreateRoom: false,
    canEditOwnMessage: false,
    canDeleteOwnMessage: false,
    canAddReaction: false,
    canMentionUsers: false,
  }}
/>
```

#### Moderator Permissions

```javascript
<DittoChatUI
  ditto={ditto}
  userCollectionKey="my-users"
  userId="user123"
  rbacConfig={{
    canCreateRoom: true,
    canEditOwnMessage: true,
    canDeleteOwnMessage: true,
    canAddReaction: true,
    canRemoveOwnReaction: true,
    canMentionUsers: true,
    canSubscribeToRoom: true,
  }}
/>
```

### Dynamic Permission Updates

For advanced use cases where permissions need to change dynamically, see the [DittoChatCore RBAC documentation](../ditto-chat-core/README.md#role-based-access-control-rbac) for information on updating permissions at runtime.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our `CONTRIBUTING.md` for more details.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
